Documentation for new victron_ble integration (#39829)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/victron_ble.markdown

---
title: Victron BLE
description: Instructions on how to integrate Victron BLE devices into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Sensor
ha_bluetooth: true
ha_release: '2025.8'
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_codeowners:
  - '@rajlaud'
ha_domain: victron_ble
ha_config_flow: true
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
ha_integration_type: integration
---

> Integrates Victron Energy devices that support the BLE protocol into Home Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Victron BLE** {% term integration %} integrates Victron Energy devices that support the BLE protocol into Home Assistant.
```

1. Install the **VictronConnect** app, ideally on the device you are using to set up this integration so you can simply cut and paste the key.
2. Open the app and pair with your device.
3. Locate the device that you want to monitor in the list shown by the app and click on it.
4. Click on the gear icon to open the **Settings** for that device.
5. Open the menu and select **Product Info**.
6. Scroll down to Instant Readout via Bluetooth and enable the feature if it is not already enabled.
7. Click the **Show** button next to Instant Readout Details to display the encryption key.

## Removing the integration

This integration follows standard integration removal. No extra steps are required.

{% include integrations/remove_device_service.md %}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Data updates

This integration subscribes to passive Bluetooth updates and will update the sensors

> as often as the updates are received.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as often as the updates are received.

## Removing the integration

This integration follows standard integration removal. No extra steps are required.

{% include integrations/remove_device_service.md %}

```

---

> title: Victron BLE

Reviewer: In core, the integration is called Victron Bluetooth Low Energy. Which name is correct?

Author: Looking at other integrations, they seem to stick with the acronym (e.g., `ruuvitag_ble` and `husqvarna_automower_ble`). I'll update the name in core to match for consistency.

description: Instructions on how to integrate Victron BLE devices into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Sensor
ha_bluetooth: true

> ha_release: '2025.8'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ha_release: '2025.12'
```

ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_codeowners:
  - '@rajlaud'
ha_domain: victron_ble
ha_config_flow: true
ha_platforms:
  - sensor

> ha_integration_type: integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_integration_type: device
```

---

> The **Victron BLE** {% term integration %} integrates Victron Energy devices that support the BLE protocol into Home Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Victron BLE** {% term integration %} integrates [Victron Energy](https://www.victronenergy.com/) devices that support the BLE protocol into Home Assistant.
```

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

The Victron BLE integration will automatically discover devices once the [Bluetooth](/integrations/bluetooth) integration is enabled and functional.

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Adding a device
```

> To configure a discovered device, you will need to supply the per-device encryption key. For more information, see these [instructions](https://github.com/keshavdv/victron-ble/tree/main#fetching-keys).

Reviewer: "The simplest method is to use the app". This makes it sound like there are other options to get the key? If there are no other options, maybe rephrase. To get the encryption key, use the ...

Or is it something like Switchbot have:
https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/switchbot/#enter-the-lock-encryption-key-manually

<img width="703" height="226" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9a3277be-5b1d-4d3c-90c7-c18e4744683c" />

Author: There are other options to get the encryption key (which predate the feature to retrieve it directly from the app). But since the app feature is so convenient, I think it makes to mention only that.

> The simplest method is to use the VictronConnect app ([Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.victronenergy.victronconnect), [iOS](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/victron-connect/id943840744), [Linux](https://www.victronenergy.com/support-and-downloads/software#victronconnect-app), [macOS](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/victronconnect/id1084677271?ls=1&mt=12), [Windows](https://www.victronenergy.com/support-and-downloads/software#victronconnect-app)):

Author: ```suggestion
To get the encryption key, use the VictronConnect app ([Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.victronenergy.victronconnect), [iOS](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/victron-connect/id943840744), [Linux](https://www.victronenergy.com/support-and-downloads/software#victronconnect-app), [macOS](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/victronconnect/id1084677271?ls=1&mt=12), [Windows](https://www.victronenergy.com/support-and-downloads/software#victronconnect-app)):
```

1. Install the **VictronConnect** app, ideally on the device you are using to set up this integration so you can simply cut and paste the key.
2. Open the app and pair with your device.

> 3. Locate the device that you want to monitor in the list shown by the app and click on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. From the list, select the device that you want to monitor.
```

> 4. Click on the gear icon to open the **Settings** for that device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. To open the **Settings** for that device, select the gear icon.
```
 goal before action.

5. Open the menu and select **Product Info**.

> 6. Scroll down to Instant Readout via Bluetooth and enable the feature if it is not already enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Scroll down to **Instant Readout via Bluetooth** and enable the feature (if it is not already enabled).
```
We use bold to markup UI strings

> 7. Click the **Show** button next to Instant Readout Details to display the encryption key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. To display the encryption key, next to **Instant Readout Details**, select **Show**.
```
